GH21 - big picture doc (#28)
rdkcentral/xts_core: README.md

> **X** **T**est **S**uite

Reviewer: I think we should change this, see below at the bottom.

### Why XTS ###

- **Unified Command Interface**: One consistent way to run test, build, and utility commands.

- **Human-Readable Configuration**: YAML format makes it easy to define, review, and update command logic.

- **Structured and Discoverable**: No need to memorize scripts or command sequences — just run `xts --help` to see what’s available.

- **Easy to Extend**: Add new commands or workflows by simply editing or adding .xts files.

- **Reduces Errors**: Encourages reuse of tested command patterns, reducing manual mistakes.

### Key Features ###

- **Automatic Directory Scanning**: Discovers all .xts files within the current folder.

- **Declarative YAML Configuration**: Define commands in a portable and version-controlled way.

- **Grouped Commands**: Organize actions into logical sections like run, build, and setup.

- **CLI Access**: Use xts <group> <command> to execute defined actions directly.

- **Environment Resource Awareness**: Can work with external tools to allocate or prepare hardware for testing (optional).

- **Developer-Focused**: Designed for local workflows — nothing extra required to get started.

## Installatation

> 

Reviewer: install should be upgrraded to actually do the whole thing

```bash
git clone git@github.com:rdkcentral/xts_core.git
cd xts_core
./install.sh
```

**X** **T**est **S**uite

XTS is a flexible and declarative command orchestration system designed to simplify and unify how engineers run tests, build software, and automate routine tasks in embedded development environments. It replaces ad-hoc scripts with structured, reusable, and readable command definitions written in YAML.

> By enabling users to define command groups and actions in .xts files, xTS brings consistency and clarity to complex command workflows — making development and testing easier to manage and less error-prone.

Reviewer 2: "xTS" Should be all caps

### What it does ###

> When executed, XTS automatically scans the current directory and all of its subdirectories for configuration files (.xts) and builds a complete set of available commands. These commands are logically grouped and can be executed from a single, intuitive command-line interface.

Reviewer 2: This is what it's planned to do, but not what it does yet. I don't think we should put this in until we've actually made it work this way.

Once discovered, XTS allows users to:

- Run predefined test or utility commands.

- Execute sequences of build or setup actions.

- Pass in arguments to customize behavior.

- View and explore all available actions defined in the project.

### Why XTS ###

- **Unified Command Interface**: One consistent way to run test, build, and utility commands.

- **Human-Readable Configuration**: YAML format makes it easy to define, review, and update command logic.

> - **Structured and Discoverable**: No need to memorize scripts or command sequences — just run xts list to see what’s available.

Reviewer 2: XTS list is not a predefined command, it's one we put in the .xts files ourselves. I'd change this to `xts --help`

- **Easy to Extend**: Add new commands or workflows by simply editing or adding .xts files.

- **Reduces Errors**: Encourages reuse of tested command patterns, reducing manual mistakes.

### Key Features ###

> - **Automatic Directory Scanning**: Discovers all .xts files within the current and nested folders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Automatic Directory Scanning**: Discovers all .xts files within the current folder.
```
We haven't got nested discovery implemented yet.

- **Developer-Focused**: Designed for local workflows — nothing extra required to get started.

### Command Discovery and Management

XTS provides a powerful and flexible way to discover and manage your command definitions.

- **Current Behaviour**: XTS currently discovers commands from .xts files located in your **current working directory**.

> - **Planned Command Registry**: In upcoming versions, XTS will introduce a central **Command Registry**. This registry will store references to .xts files from various sources, including local file paths and remote URLs. It will serve as a primary source for frequently used or global commands, with its contents controlled via dedicated XTS registry commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Planned Remote Config Support**: In upcoming versions, XTS will introduce the ability to use XTS config files hosted in remote locations.
```

- **Planned Local Augmentation**: When the Command Registry is introduced, XTS will automatically merge command definitions from the registry with those found in your **current working directory**. This will allow you to easily add project-specific commands or override global ones without modifying the central registry.

**Registry Management Commands (Planned)**
Once implemented, the Command Registry's contents will be managed using dedicated XTS registry commands:

- `xts registry add <path_or_url>`: Adds a new `.xts` file (from a local path or URL) to the registry.
- `xts registry remove <path_or_url>`: Removes an `.xts` file reference from the registry.
- `xts registry list`: Displays all `.xts` files currently registered.

> Future updates will also introduce features like `xts list -R` for recursive scanning of commands on demand.

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to remove this for now and properly plan it out, then add it back when we're all on the same page about.

```
*As the command in the config is using `$@` for the parameters, anything entered after `xts run list_demo` will be printed in place of the word "me".*

## Use Cases ##

- **Embedded Testing**: Run hardware or software tests across devices or setups.

- **Build Automation**: Standardize how code is compiled or packaged.

- **System Utilities**: Automate setup tasks like logging, flashing, or cleanup routines.

- **Developer Workflows**: Save time with shortcuts for repetitive development commands.

## Contributing

> See contributing file: [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

Reviewer: # XTS

**eXtendable Task Syntax**

XTS is a flexible and declarative command orchestration system designed to simplify and unify how engineers run tests, build software, and automate routine tasks in embedded development environments. It replaces ad-hoc scripts with structured, reusable, and readable command definitions written in YAML.

By enabling users to define command groups and actions in `.xts` files, XTS brings consistency and clarity to complex command workflows — making development and testing easier to manage and less error-prone.

-----

### Why XTS

  - **Unified Command Interface**: One consistent way to run test, build, and utility commands.
  - **Human-Readable Configuration**: YAML format makes it easy to define, review, and update command logic.
  - **Structured and Discoverable**: No need to memorize scripts or command sequences — just run `xts --help` to see what’s available.
  - **Easy to Extend**: Add new commands or workflows by simply editing or adding `.xts` files.
  - **Reduces Errors**: Encourages reuse of tested command patterns, reducing manual mistakes.

-----

### Key Features

  - **Declarative YAML Configuration**: Define commands in a portable and version-controlled way.
  - **Grouped Commands**: Organize actions into logical sections like run, build, and setup.
  - **CLI Access**: Use `xts <group> <command>` to execute defined actions directly.
  - **Environment Resource Awareness**: Can work with external tools to allocate or prepare hardware for testing (optional).
  - **Developer-Focused**: Designed for local workflows — nothing extra required to get started.

-----

### Command Discovery and Management

XTS provides a powerful and flexible way to discover and manage your command definitions.

  - **Current Behaviour**: XTS currently discovers commands from `.xts` files located in your **current working directory**.

  - **Planned Command Registry**: In upcoming versions, XTS will introduce a central **Command Registry**. This registry will store references to `.xts` files from various sources, including local file paths and remote URLs. It will serve as a primary source for frequently used or global commands, with its contents controlled via dedicated `xts registry` commands.

  - **Planned Local Augmentation**: When the Command Registry is introduced, XTS will automatically merge command definitions from the registry with those found in your **current working directory**. This will allow you to easily add project-specific commands or override global ones without modifying the central registry.

#### Registry Management Commands (Planned)

Once implemented, the Command Registry's contents will be managed using dedicated `xts registry` commands:

  - `xts registry add <path_or_url>`: Adds a new `.xts` file (from a local path or URL) to the registry.
  - `xts registry remove <path_or_url>`: Removes an `.xts` file reference from the registry.
  - `xts registry list`: Displays all `.xts` files currently registered.

Future updates will also introduce features like `xts list -R` for recursive scanning of commands on demand.

-----

## Installation

To install XTS, clone the repository and run the installation script:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:rdkcentral/xts_core.git
cd xts_core
./install.sh
```

The `install.sh` script will set up XTS and, by default, populate your Command Registry with a core set of system commands.

-----

## Usage

After installation, `xts` will be available as a command. It automatically merges command definitions from your **Command Registry** (if configured) with any `.xts` files found in your **current working directory**. This allows for a flexible hierarchy of global and project-specific commands.

**To check which commands are available run `xts --help`**

-----

## Example Workflow

Here is an example of an XTS YAML config that will run with XTS [hello\_world.xts](https://www.google.com/search?q=examples/[hello_world.xts](https://www.google.com/search?q=examples/hello_world.xts)). It has comments explaining how the sections are used. This config can be tested with the XTS by running the following commands in the `examples` directory.

### Example command \#1

```sh
xts run hello_world
```

This will print the words "hello world".

### Example command \#2

```sh
xts run list_demo me
```

This should give the below output:

```
Hello
me
Goodbye
me
```

*As the command in the config is using `$@` for the parameters, anything entered after `xts run list_demo` will be printed in place of the word "me".*

-----

## Use Cases

  - **Embedded Testing**: Run hardware or software tests across devices or setups.
  - **Build Automation**: Standardize how code is compiled or packaged.
  - **System Utilities**: Automate setup tasks like logging, flashing, or cleanup routines.
  - **Developer Workflows**: Save time with shortcuts for repetitive development commands.

-----

## Contributing

See contributing file: [[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://www.google.com/search?q=CONTRIBUTING.md)](https://www.google.com/search?q=CONTRIBUTING.md)

-----

## License

See license file: [[LICENSE](https://www.google.com/search?q=LICENSE)](https://www.google.com/search?q=LICENSE)

-----
